I'm Allison eaten with micron and today
we are talking about arguably one of the
biggest technology announcements in
micron history it's called the hybrid
memory cube and here to explain this
technology its significance and the
unusual partnership surrounding this
announcement is Scott Graham with our
DRAM solutions group Scott first tell us
a little bit about your involvement your
background in this project why you're
the key guy to be talking about the
hybrid memory cube are HMC as we call it
sure so several years ago we had
multiple engineering teams working
together to try to come up with an idea
on how do we innovate new technology
especially in the DRAM space and try to
come up with a technology that can bring
more value add back to the DRAM space
and so these guys all sat together and
worked diligently and came up with an
incredible technology called hybrid
memory cube and basically it was so good
that we decided that our executive teams
decided that we should create a
essentially a mini business unit that
would be responsible for the technology
ensuring that we enable it that we can
mass-produce this technology that we can
bring it to market and so therefore they
asked me to come in and and become the
general manager for this technology in
this group and bring it to production
well what is HMC and what makes it so
revolutionary so hyper memory is
essentially it is a logic layer base
that has all of the memory control and
then we have a simplified DRAM later
that we stack on top of that and the
stack can be anywhere from four DRAM
slices to a DRAM slices and it's what's
incredible about the technology is the
3d aspect of it where we use
through-silicon vias to interconnect
basically the DRAM layers and logic
layer and by doing that we're allowed to
have a technology that has high
performance and low energy and it also
consumes a much smaller footprint than
the nor than a normal DDR type of
technology in a module form so when we
couple all those things together then we
really we've we've basically taken a
bunch of innovative pieces and then
created one giant innovative piece in
hybrid memory cube and where do you see
it having the biggest impact the impact
is is incredible across multiple markets
as we look at the industry itself and in
high-performance computing networking
all of the applications that are
requiring a tremendous amount of data
whether it's a video data that's coming
across the web or its you know various
forms of information that is coming into
your iPhone's
into your portable laptops Wi-Fi or even
in supercomputing environment where
they're crunching numbers doing trades
and and doing things in the you know in
the market that require a vast amount of
data to come through these data centers
and into these devices and so hyper
memory cube what that does is it breaks
down the memory wall that is true has
traditionally been out there and it it
really allows for a high performance
computing that has a lot of data that
comes through it as well as it uses less
energy so essentially what we're doing
is were we're able to have the
performance of a Ferrari per se and have
the gas efficiency of a Toyota Prius and
so for the first time ever we've been
able to do that with this type of
technology also perhaps for the first
time ever we've formed some interesting
collaborations at the beginning I said
we this has sparked some unusual
partnerships including one with Samsung
talked about that very interesting so
one of the the creative things that we
had to do with this technology is that
the OEMs and the industry in general is
not necessarily comfortable with vetting
a particular product line on a sole
source of technology and so micron
wouldn't wouldn't be as successful in
taking this technology to more of a mass
volume or mass
production it would become more of a
niche product and and when we sat down
early on and decided that you know we
want to take this and have this bring
that value add back into the memory and
really take this thing to market and
have a very broad adoption in multiple
applications multiple segments and so we
realized that we had to partner up with
someone who could also produce the
technology and so therefore we we sat
down with Samsung and we already had a
cross license agreement with Samsung to
begin with and so it made sense from
Samsung's
technical capabilities as well as that
they had the financial means to be able
to come up to speed quickly on this
technology and then we can work
collaboratively together in order to
bring the technology to market while
Samsung is certainly the biggest they're
not the only technology that we're
working with on this project explained
the consortium approach to HMC sure so
usually with the as everyone knows in
memory we typically go to a standards
association jeddak is the is the main
body that we standardize our memories
and that allows all the memory suppliers
to be able to come together along with
the OEMs and and various enablers and
create a standard that everyone can
design to and with with this particular
technology we wanted to go to market
very quickly and so therefore we felt
that an outside consortium that has a
focused group of members those members
today you know are key developers that
are really focused on networking
segments and and some high performance
computing and so we've we've enlisted
altaira Xilinx and open silicon along
with micron and samsung to be the
developers that are founding this
consortium and then we'll bring on
additional developers over time and then
as well will also invite adopters which
can be anybody in the industry that is
interested in the technology to come in
and have a you know an early preview to
the spec the the consortium itself is is
really just a you know it's a it's an
opportunity for us to come together and
create that interface specification so
that all of the various enablers in the
industry and OMS can hook up to this
technology now that even announced this
and what are the next steps with all the
different players so the next steps are
that will will have the final developers
within the next month we feel that we'll
have that initial developer group
established and it'll be the fire that I
mentioned and then some additional key
OEMs and what we're really interested in
is having you know the key industry
leaders be part of the developers group
who have the final say on the
specification and then we'll also open
that imitation up at that point we'll
open the invitation up to the adopters
to come and join which they will have an
opportunity to provide some feedback and
input into the specification then we'll
start having these these meetings on a
monthly basis very similar to the other
standards industry standards that are
out there and we'll we'll get together
and meet face-to-face go over the
specifications work out all of the the
bugs that we need to work out and then
create an industry specification that we
hope to deliver it in 2012 well this is
really exciting I appreciate you giving
us some additional insight into the
hybrid memory cube and the partnerships
that surround it and we look forward to
see where this goes in the future thank
you thank you Scott